And also we have the Declarative
Shadow DOM, that today is the one that has
just arrived to Safari, okay,
just arrived to Safari.
And it's a way to define that you want
the Shadow DOM directly in the markup,
not with JavaScript.
When you create a template, you specify,
I want the Shadow DOM for this template.
And that means that a server-side
rendering engine can declare a Shadow DOM
directly in the HTML without
executing JavaScript, all right?
So in the future,
it might be like a good way to create
a Shadow DOM on web components,
but today it's still meh, okay?
What about CSS?
Cuz we haven't mentioned CSS.
A web component typically has a CSS
attached, mostly if you're using
Shadow DOM, because now we know that it's
not going to inherit CSS from the outside.
Well, again, alternatives,
not one single way.
You can use CSSOM APIs and
see what's that.
That's a DOM, but for CSS.
There is an API in JavaScript to
create style sheets with JavaScript.
You can add a script to a template or
a style to a template,
a link to an external file, or use
an external CSS file loaded with fetch and
inject that in the Shadow DOM as a style.
That's the version that we will use,
not because it's the best one,
it's just one way.
Yeah, question.
>> Where's the link between template and
the custom element, so the styles and
the template become encapsulated?
>> So the question has to do with where
is the link between the template and
the custom element?
Actually, there is no link.
We do that link.
So we as developers of
the custom elements,
we're going to load that template by ID,
for example.
In fact, you can reuse the same
template for more than one custom element.
That's why we need to clone it as well.
So that's why a web component is actually
a set of completely separate APIs,
that it becomes like a design pattern,
okay?
Let's use these three APIs
to create web components.
>> Yep.
>> When we clone the template,
do we clone all the styles inside?
>> You clone everything inside,
all the DOM inside.
Yeah, the idea is because when you have
different instances of that element,
you want each instance to
have its own Shadow DOM.
>> Yep.
>> Are classes required for components or
can we do a functional style?
>> So classes are not require.
So the object that you send here
must follow the HTML interface.
So does it mean that it must
be a class declaration?
No, there are other ways In JavaScript.
Today, they will look like hacky
ways to some kind of injecting to
an object a different prototype,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
So to answer quickly the question,
you can create your own mini-framework,
mini-library, that can create web
components from a function, okay?
But you have to do that,
you have to hack this a little bit.
By the way, it's official,
it's not a hack.
But it's not, by default,
a function in functional components and
class components in React.
So let's say that it must be
an object implementing an interface,
and the way to do that in
modern JavaScript is a class.
But also, we have classic ways to do that,
that today looks a little weird,
but they are still there.
So it's possible to change the style.